in the clip that you're about to see
Mayim Bialik invokes her reputation as a
scientist she mentions that she is a
scientist and she then invites you to
imagine that you can make a leap of
influence from a generalization about
how human sperm appears on a slide under
a microscope in a laboratory and a
generalization about how our societies
develop how ethics and social norms
operate within a given culture in a
given period of time that's a huge leap
of inference and what I draw your
attention to here in advance before I
play the clip is just that she makes
this leap of inference with the
assumption that men the male's of the
human species
are engaged in sexual activity without
an awareness that sex leads to pregnancy
now in the discipline of cultural
anthropology there are a few a few
tribal societies on record where people
really did not understand that having
sex leads to babies but in almost all of
the societies we could be taught
possibly talking about whether tribal or
living in massive cities whether with
advanced agricultural civilizations or
even hunter-gatherer civilization in
almost all cases you're talking about a
society where there is a fundamental
awareness even if crude that having sex
leads to pregnancy and as soon as you
have that awareness on an individual
level and on a cultural level then the
types of generalizations she's making
here fundamentally do not make sense it
does not make sense for her to say that
women would be careful in choosing a
mate because they care about who's the
father of their child who they're gonna
spend ten years with raising a baby
whereas men would not saying that men
numerically have more sperm and women
numerically have fewer eggs is even
Aerith matically irrelevant to the
question of what are you doing with the
next ten years of your life if men are
aware that falling in love with a woman
and having sex with her is going to lead
to a 10-year commitment raising the
child or conversely the shame and
obligee of
no infanticide or child abandonment
that's going to powerfully motivated
shape human behavior it's gonna
powerfully you know influence the
development of social and moral
expectations ultimately sexual behavior
and society as we know
Okin relationships that's what it's
called when you're in a relationship but
then you have relationships with other
people too
like not just sex emotional
relationships too
and sex and everyone involved in this
relationship knows about it no lying no
secrets just everything out in the open
just open hence the name open
relationships I also get that monogamy
is a cultural construct we aren't
biologically wired to be monogamous
people in open relationships are
exchanging one cultural construct for
another that of equating male and female
sexuality but as a scientist I'm here to
ruin everybody's good time and to tell
you that the assumption that male and
female sexuality can be pretty much
treated the same is in direct opposition
to our biology it's not more culturally
relevant it goes against millions of
years of evolution now before you roll
your eyes at me cut it out I'm talking
to you stop rolling your eye see you
okay let's review the male body produces
billions of sperm every day
did someone fact check that cameo the
male body produces millions of sperm
every day a woman produces one egg per
month for all of evolution women have
carefully selected a mate and their
hormones and physiology favor careful
selection men don't need to be as
selective because they are constantly
able to have sex biologically not just
colloquially so in the intro I invited
you to be sceptical about the claims mam
was making here I'm now gonna leap right
into a an example from my own fieldwork
my own experience studying and living in
various cultures in the field in
northern Laos and Southwest Union China
there are two different cultures there
that live adjacent to each other they
live in the same climate and in many
ways they have the same kind of material
culture in terms of how they survive in
relation to the jungle and farming and
how they
make clothes at a cloth in many many
ways they're similar indeed I think
tourists who show up and interact with
these two tribal groups I'm gonna
describe to you they're not even aware
that they're two different ethnic groups
speaking two different languages but
they are they have different languages
they have different customs they're
different religions animist religions
religions they've generated themselves
and they also profoundly different
assumptions about human sexuality and
how marriage works one of these two
tribes I'm going to talk about are
called the akai so if you search my name
plus akka you're going to find some
really interesting articles that reflect
the research I did in this group but I
also met them I mean they were around I
was living in that part of the world I
knew them face to face to some limited
extent I could speak loshon I could not
speak the akai language um be that as it
may the akka became a little bit famous
and infamous because when I was there in
Laos they were still carrying on a
traditional custom that ultimately does
reflect a biological reality their
custom was that young women would have
several years of freedom to date and
sleep with many different men in theory
the young women could sleep with every
young man and the tribe before selecting
her husband and then they'd get married
and settle down and be monogamous
now I remember pointing out this is not
so different from the assumptions about
dating and marriage that exist right now
in Paris France in France most people
most people who are not Christian
fundamentalists they will expect the
young woman to have a limited number of
years of sexual freedom in which she
could date and sleep with some number of
men and then she's supposed to choose
one commit and be monogamous
however biologically in Paris France
that's based on the assumption that the
young woman is going to use the birth
control pill or use condoms or otherwise
avoid pregnancy until she selects the
man she's going to commit to
historically this assumption in akha
society in this travel society in
Southeast Asia was entirely the result
of poor nutrition poor hygiene is also a
problem but poor nutrition delayed the
completion of few
delayed women becoming truly fertile for
many many years so this is observed in
different societies around the world
depending on the diet you have the age
at which women can actually conceive a
child it gets later and later the worse
and worse your nutrition is so from
their perspective a young woman at
sixteen would have several years in
which she could date men and have sexual
relationships but during which time
there was almost zero possibility of her
getting pregnant and that shaped the
development of that whole culture there
is another big assumption there that I
would say people in Paris France
basically have in common with this
Travel Group in Southeast Asia that is
the assumption that the young woman
would date and sleep with young men of
her own age of her own generation so
yeah obviously the guy might be a couple
years older or a couple years younger
but there was a very deep assumption
that she would date and find a find the
man she would marry with in young men
approximately her own age okay there's
another tribe right next door called the
mom Hmong is spelled with an H so some
people press it along but they just
bounce it mom the mom still to this day
this is a challenge and the legal
authorities often get involved they have
a totally different assumption that much
older men will pursue Court and marry
teenage girls that teenage girls become
the targets of affection seduction and
even abduction by older men now for
modern society in Laos modern society in
Thailand in a sense it's almost easier
to cope with this clash of cultures
ancient and modern when it ends up in
court when the young woman is
flabbergasted or when she rejects the
marriage when she takes the older man to
court and says no this is bad and it's
wrong it's much more difficult to deal
with when the young woman really has
accepted these cultural values to give
an example that I know from a hospital
in Laos
I had a friend
working at a hospital and she was really
shocked that there was this teenage girl
and her husband looked like he was 90
years old so probably the guy was
actually in a 70s but this was a teenage
girl with a husband she said this guy he
really looked incredibly old then well
let's say it's a guy in his 70s with a
teenager and so this is from this tribal
subculture the Hmong who had come down
into the city these are people living in
the far north in relatively tribal
conditions those people still have that
intact culture traditional culture and
they come down to the city because they
needed to do something at the hospital
and when they're at the hospital the
hospital plays are really kind of sharp
with this but the young woman in this
case she was kind of proud of herself
she had she had taken on these cultural
attitudes where she felt like she was
the prettiest girl in her village and
that this you know attention from this
older man it it raised her status that
he was some kind of you know it meant
that she was a prize and that he was
also some kind of high status man within
the tribe whatever the situation was she
was kind of chuffed with her success in
this situation anyway I think it's her
call some people at the hospital asked
will you be allowed to marry another man
after he doxa 40 kudos for asking but
yeah so those were two tribes living
right next to each other that developed
completely different ethical systems and
completely different assumptions in
dealing with partner preference partner
selection ultimately monogamy and the
raising of children now the problems
that emerge in 21st century were that
the a-cups that's the first group I
discuss describe the akka who had a
culture of teenage girls and young women
having a lot of sexual freedom up to a
certain age they were getting involved
in prostitution and that was partly
because outsiders were coming to the
village and they would so to speak
exploit this culture and they would
bring in tourists and outsiders I could
say more about this sometimes they were
for example men
were building a highway nearby you know
because this is like literally the first
highway going through the jungle that
was what was going on at that time
I'm the jungle itself was being cut down
very rapidly but so there'd be
stereotypically there'd be Chinese
employees building this highway and some
kind of pimp would bring these guys into
a village and say hey we can set this up
we can make this arrangement where you
get to sleep with these much younger
women so that was the cultural problem
there and the case I wrote an article of
though it had to do with humanitarian
workers people who are part of a
humanitarian relief projects who were
coming in and sleeping with these young
women so and so forth all right and the
other problem is nutrition and hygiene
had improved right this is the 21st
century so all of a sudden people are
eating better food they're not as
nutrient deficient the young women are
you know having their first ministration
at younger and younger ages something
happens throughout urban scientific
civilization right so also the young
women are now getting pregnant and as a
culture they had not cope with that
before they not cope with that to this
extent their culture had developed the
assumption that you had several years of
Liberty before pregnancy became a
problem or concern and that was
shrinking or disappearing so again this
is an interesting case of technological
change
forcing cultural change now the problem
the other group had the Mong was
basically that many of their cultural
customs were now perceived as kidnapping
we're now perceived as criminal and I
even knew I knew one anthropologist who
specifically research this issue
basically the issue of rape within this
culture rape and abduction and then
beyond that again there was also an
economic aspect that probably hadn't
existed before where you know an older
person again you could say wealthy but
this is by third world standards so I
just a person has a little bit of money
it might be a very poor person by
Western standards but some older man is
safe that money is paying for these
arrangements through business
and it's brutal and dehumanizing and of
course ultimately it snuffs out the
opportunities these young women would
have to choose who they want to marry
and it's enough so that their
opportunity to get an education or have
a career or do normal things of their
lives and of course the government there
was very reluctant to real to set off
like a tribal civil war by trying to
impose the morality of other tribes on
this one particular tribe or imposed the
morality of the big city and the central
government on this on this tribe
so that tension was really unfolding in
front of my eyes in Laos as the jungle
was cut down as electricity and highways
extended into the forest for the first
time so that's all I have to say here
it's really I mean Mayim Bialik is well
intentioned but what she's saying is
really kind of vile and evil and stupid
and wrong you've seen this kind of
excuse used to justify an amazing array
of sexual behaviors where people say
well you know men have sperm therefore
if you're not talking about a severely
mentally disabled man if you're talking
about a man who's capable of
understanding the sleeping with someone
just once
can entail a ten year commitment or a 20
year commitment to raising a child then
ultimately you're having to look at
questions of how society develops coping
with that awareness of responsibility a
few months ago I did a book review about
the history of the English Civil War
that history starts at least in the
1630s and ends at least in the 1650s the
English Civil War goes on a long long
time and at one point the scholar who
wrote the book just kind of breaks
breaks through the fourth wall and
addresses the audience directly and says
look you know what
I've been reading all these historical
documents all these primary source
documents all these records and you know
there's torture and violence and a lot
of robbery
huge amounts of piracy and looting and
this kind of stuff but no
nowhere is there an indication in this
history of rape
even though nudity was sometimes used to
humiliate people in the Civil War like
people were made to march through the
street naked or something as a kind of
punishment he comments that in this
culture you know people it's not just
that they were questioned they obviously
were deeply deeply committed the idea
that sex equals pregnancy pregnancy
equals a commitment to raise a child
so in the context of this unbelievably
brutal civil war people are murdering
each other and robbing each other and
terrible things are happening but the
idea of enemies raping each other
doesn't exist yet because of this
profound awareness of the responsibility
the sexual intercourse entails so look
guys the question that Mandy Alec is
leaving unasked and that this video at
least is leaving unanswered is how do we
now cope how do we now adapt and develop
a new culture when in some ways anything
is possible
anything is permissible but there's no
outside force that will compel us to
take responsibility when the sense of
responsibility now more than ever has to
come from within
[Music]